tgs/README.md, before:

# Thoughts (TGS) Directory

This directory contains organized thought processes, research, planning, and implementation records. Each subdirectory represents a complete thought cycle from research to implementation using the TGSFlow methodology.

## Directory Structure

Each thought is organized in a subdirectory with the naming convention:
```
<BASE_GIT_HASH>-<short-title-description>/
```

Where:
- **BASE_GIT_HASH**: The git commit hash at the moment the thought/research began
- **short-title-description**: A brief description of the thought/improvement

## Thought Structure

Each thought directory contains:

- **`research.md`** - Problem analysis, constraint identification, and solution exploration
- **`plan.md`** - Detailed implementation plan with phases and technical specifications  
- **`implementation.md`** - Complete implementation summary and integration guide
- **`README.md`** - Navigation index and quick links to related files

## Purpose

This organizational structure provides:

1. **Traceability**: Each thought is linked to its originating git state
2. **Completeness**: Full research → plan → implementation → summary cycle
3. **Organization**: Related documentation grouped together
4. **History**: Clear evolution of ideas and implementations
5. **Context**: Preserved decision-making context for future reference

## Usage

When starting a new thought/improvement:

1. Get the current git HEAD hash: `git rev-parse --short HEAD`
2. Create directory: `tgs/<hash>-<short-description>/`
3. Conduct research and create `research.md`
4. Develop plan and create `plan.md`
5. **Get human approval** for both research and plan
6. Implement changes according to approved plan
7. Document implementation in `implementation.md`
8. Update this index with the new thought entry

Or use the helper:
```bash
make new-thought title="Your idea here"
```

## TGSFlow Workflow

This structure supports the TGSFlow methodology:
- **Human oversight**: Research and planning require explicit approval
- **AI implementation**: Detailed execution of approved plans  
- **Documentation**: Complete audit trail for all decisions
- **Traceability**: Every change links back to its thought process

This ensures thoughtful development with clear human-AI collaboration boundaries.

Commit message:

feat(bootstrap): add decorate mode for existing repositories
- Add --decorate, --dry-run, --force, --with-templates flags
- Non-destructive decorate flow copies minimal TGS workflow (agentops/AGENTOPS.md, tgs/README.md, agentops/tgs/*)
- Generate tgs.mk and ensure Makefile includes it idempotently
- Detect existing .git when not decorating and prompt for decorate/new/quit
- Keep existing bootstrap flow untouched by default

Docs:
- Update tgs/README.md with Bootstrapping vs Decorating and prompt behavior
- Implementation details in tgs/612a57f-decorate-existing-software-project-repository/implementation.md

Thought: tgs/612a57f-decorate-existing-software-project-repository/

tgs/README.md, after:

# Thoughts (TGS) Directory

This directory contains organized thought processes, research, planning, and implementation records. Each subdirectory represents a complete thought cycle from research to implementation using the TGSFlow methodology.

## Directory Structure

Each thought is organized in a subdirectory with the naming convention:
```
<BASE_GIT_HASH>-<short-title-description>/
```

Where:
- **BASE_GIT_HASH**: The git commit hash at the moment the thought/research began
- **short-title-description**: A brief description of the thought/improvement

## Thought Structure

Each thought directory contains:

- **`research.md`** - Problem analysis, constraint identification, and solution exploration
- **`plan.md`** - Detailed implementation plan with phases and technical specifications  
- **`implementation.md`** - Complete implementation summary and integration guide
- **`README.md`** - Navigation index and quick links to related files

## Purpose

This organizational structure provides:

1. **Traceability**: Each thought is linked to its originating git state
2. **Completeness**: Full research → plan → implementation → summary cycle
3. **Organization**: Related documentation grouped together
4. **History**: Clear evolution of ideas and implementations
5. **Context**: Preserved decision-making context for future reference

## Usage

When starting a new thought/improvement in a decorated or bootstrapped repo:

1. Get the current git HEAD hash: `git rev-parse --short HEAD`
2. Create directory: `tgs/<hash>-<short-description>/`
3. Conduct research and create `research.md`
4. Develop plan and create `plan.md`
5. **Get human approval** for both research and plan
6. Implement changes according to approved plan
7. Document implementation in `implementation.md`
8. Update this index with the new thought entry

Or use the helper:
```bash
make new-thought title="Your idea here"
```

## Bootstrapping vs Decorating

- Use bootstrap for greenfield projects: 
  ```bash
  curl -sSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/akelv/tgsflow/main/bootstrap.sh | bash
  ```
  Follow prompts to select a template and project name.

- Use decorate for existing repositories (adds only the TGS workflow files to the current repo):
  ```bash
  curl -sSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/akelv/tgsflow/main/bootstrap.sh | bash -s -- --decorate
  ```

Behavior:
- If you run `bootstrap.sh` in a directory that already contains a `.git` folder without `--decorate`, the script will prompt you to choose:
  - Decorate the current repository (recommended to adopt TGS in-place), or
  - Initialize a new project in a subdirectory, or
  - Quit.
- `--dry-run` is supported to preview changes.

## TGSFlow Workflow

This structure supports the TGSFlow methodology:
- **Human oversight**: Research and planning require explicit approval
- **AI implementation**: Detailed execution of approved plans  
- **Documentation**: Complete audit trail for all decisions
- **Traceability**: Every change links back to its thought process

This ensures thoughtful development with clear human-AI collaboration boundaries.
